# Financial-App-Analysis

**The Process**
This project was initially started as an independent side project as a way for me to improve my Python abilities, and as a way for me to learn more about the financial app industry. I initially intended to scrape the Google Play store and use the resulting data set to create some basic visuals and conduct a simple statistical analysis. However, upon reviewing my data set, I discovered that it would be difficult to uncover any useful insights from the limited number of variables that I had scraped. I tried to think of other ways to make my project meaningful, which was when I came up with the idea of scraping the text from app reviews instead. With this new data set I would be able to find the popularity of specific words in reviews of different star ratings. I decided the most effective groupings would be to parse through the five star reviews and then compare my results against the one star reviews. 

After doing so, I found some interesting results. From there I used Tableau to create a simple bubble chart to help visualize the most common words. The most interesting takeaway that I noticed was how overwhelmingly often negative reviews are related to poor customer service. I expected to see a blend of negative comments about a given app's features and their customer service, but hardly any of the most common words found in one star reviews seemed related to app features. To me, my findings emphasized the importance of providing fast, reliable customer service in tandem with simple, user-friendly features when developing a personal finance app.

**What I Learned**
Starting my first independent data analytics project was certainly intimidating, and, being a mostly self taught coder, I constantly found myself doubting my capabilities at each step of the process. Initially I shot down many ideas that I had for the direction of this project because I did not believe I had the technical skills to turn my ideas into functional code. However, once I got myself going with the help of a fantastic article (linked below), my work rapidly progressed. As I made it over each technical hurdle, I became increasingly confident in my ability to make it over the next. I was able to combine my curiosity and eagerness to learn with the abundance of blogs, articles, and other coding resources available online. This combination will undoubtedly continue to be the key to my success in future personal or professional projects.

For me, the most significant takeaways from this project are the importance of having mentors whose guidance you can trust, and taking the initiative to get your hands dirty and apply your skills. Starting my own project was something that was suggested to me by the handful of wonderful mentors that I have been fortunate enough to connect with this summer. Without their guidance, I may never have realized the drastic effects that personal projects can have on building both confidence and skill. At the same time, it took serious willpower to grind through this project over the summer while interning 40 hours a week and taking ~ 75 hours of online coding courses. My mentors led me to the water, but ultimately it was up to me to decide to drink.

Thanks to my newfound confidence, I look forward to working on future projects and continuing to develop my skill set through personal exploration. See you next time!

**Sources**
I drew inspiration and got my project moving with help from Venelin Valkov's article for Towards Data Science (linked for reading here):
https://towardsdatascience.com/create-dataset-for-sentiment-analysis-by-scraping-google-play-app-reviews-using-python-ceaaa0e41c1 
